.\" Copyright (C) 2010 The GNOME Foundation
.\"
.\" This is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License,
.\" or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
.\"with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH pitivi 1 "2010\-12\-08" "GNOME"
.SH NAME
pitivi \- Non-linear video editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pitivi
.RI [PROJECT_FILE]
.P
.B pitivi
.RI -i
.RI [-a]
.RI [MEDIA_FILE]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pitivi
is a free, intuitive and featureful movie editor for the Linux desktop.
.P
.B pitivi
starts the video editor, optionally loading PROJECT_FILE. If no project is
given, pitivi creates a new project. Alternatively, when -i is specified,
arguments are treated as clips to be imported into the project. If -a is
specified, these clips will also be added to the end of the project timeline.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-import
Import each MEDIA_FILE into the project
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add-to-timeline
Add each MEDIA_FILE to timeline after importing
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Run pitivi in the Python Debugger
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Hicham HAOUARI <hicham@fedoraproject.org>,
for the Fedora project (but may be used by others).
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=pitivi
